The President:
This is a time of year when
people get together with family
and friends to observe Passover
and to celebrate Easter.
It's a chance to give thanks for
our blessings and reaffirm our
faith, while spending time
with the people we love.
We all know how
important that is --
especially in hard times.
And that's what a lot of
people are facing these days.
Even though the economy is
growing again and we've seen
businesses adding jobs
over the past year,
many are still looking for work.
And even if you haven't
faced a job loss,
it's still not easy out there.
Your paycheck isn't
getting bigger,
while the cost of everything
from college for your kids to
gas for your car keeps going up.
That's something on a lot of
people's minds right now,
with gas prices at $4 a gallon.
It's just another burden when
things were already pretty tough.
Now, whenever gas prices
shoot up, like clockwork,
you see politicians
racing to the cameras,
waving three-point
plans for $2 gas.
You see people trying to grab
headlines or score a few points.
The truth is, there is no silver
bullet that can bring down gas
prices right away.
But there are a few
things we can do.
This includes safe and
responsible production of oil at
home, which we're pursuing.
In fact, last year, American oil
production reached its highest
level since 2003.
On Thursday, my Attorney General
also launched a task force with
just one job: rooting out cases
of fraud or manipulation in the
oil markets that might
affect gas prices,
including any illegal activity
by traders and speculators.
We're going to make sure that no
one is taking advantage of the
American people for their
own short-term gain.
And another step we need to take
is to finally end the $4 billion
in taxpayer subsidies we give to
the oil and gas companies each year.
That's $4 billion of your money
going to these companies when
they're making record profits
and you're paying near record
prices at the pump.
It has to stop.
Instead of subsidizing
yesterday's energy sources,
we need to invest in tomorrow's.
We need to invest in
clean, renewable energy.
That's the long term
answer that we need.
That's the key to helping
families at the pump and
reducing our dependence
on foreign oil.
We can see that promise already.
Thanks to a historic agreement
we secured with all the major
auto companies, we're raising
the fuel economy of cars and
trucks in America, using hybrid
technology and other advances.
As a result, if you buy a new
car in the next few years,
the better gas mileage is going to
save you about $3,000 at the pump.
But we need to do more.
We need to harness the potential
I've seen at promising start-ups
and innovative clean energy
companies across America.
And that's at the heart of a
debate we're having right now in
Washington about the budget.
Both Democrats and Republicans
believe we need to reduce the deficit.
That's where we agree.
The question we're
debating is, how we do it?
I've proposed a balanced
approach that cuts spending
while still investing in things
like education and clean energy
that are so critical to creating
jobs and opportunities for the
middle class.
It's a simple idea: we need to
live within our means while at
the same time investing
in our future.
That's why I so strongly
disagree with a proposal in
Congress that cuts our investments
in clean energy by 70%.
Yes, we've got to get rid
of wasteful spending --
and make no mistake, we're going
through every line of the budget
scouring for savings.
But we can do that without
sacrificing our future.
We can do that while still
investing in the technologies
that will create jobs and allow
the United States to lead the
world in new industries.
That's how we'll not
only reduce the deficit,
but also lower our dependence on
foreign oil, grow our economy,
and leave our children
a safer planet.
And that's what our
mission has to be.
Thanks for listening, and have
a wonderful Easter weekend.